performance testing and failover testing (#18)
aswinayyolath/stretch-kafka-docs: docs/Testing-performance.md

# Performance Testing

## Open messaging benchmark framework
The Open Messaging Benchmark framework was used to benchmark the stretch Kafka clusters. By following this [tutorial](https://community.ibm.com/community/user/integration/blogs/dale-lane1/2025/02/03/running-openmessaging-benchmarks), we obtained benchmark results for three configurations:
 
 - Regular Kafka cluster

>  - Stretch kafka cluster with submariner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Stretch cluster with Submariner
```

>  - Stretch kafka cluster with cilium

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Stretch cluster with Cilium
```

The Open messaging benchmark framework deploys 8 benchmark workers and one driver in the K8s environment. Once the tests start, the driver employs the workers to produce/consume messages to the cluster using its bootstrap url.

## Configuration

> For all the stretched Kafka cluster configurations, the OpenShift (OCP)/K8s clusters were located in the same data centers, minimizing network latency and focusing on the additional latency introduced by the networking tools in use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the stretch cluster configurations, the OpenShift (OCP)/K8s clusters were located in the same data centers, minimizing network latency and focusing on the additional latency introduced by the networking tools in use.
```

metadata:
  name: controller
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: my-cluster
spec:
  replicas: 3
  roles:
    - controller
  storage:
    type: jbod
    volumes:
      - id: 0
        type: ephemeral
        kraftMetadata: shared
---

apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: KafkaNodePool
metadata:
  name: broker
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: my-cluster
spec:
  replicas: 3
  roles:
    - broker
  storage:
    type: jbod
    volumes:
      - id: 0
        type: ephemeral
        kraftMetadata: shared
---

apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
  annotations:
    strimzi.io/node-pools: enabled
    strimzi.io/kraft: enabled
spec:
  kafka:
    version: 3.8.0
    metadataVersion: 3.8-IV0
    listeners:
      - name: plain
        port: 9092
        type: internal
        tls: false
      - name: tls
        port: 9093
        type: internal
        tls: true
    config:
      offsets.topic.replication.factor: 3
      transaction.state.log.replication.factor: 3
      transaction.state.log.min.isr: 2
      default.replication.factor: 3
      min.insync.replicas: 2
  entityOperator:
    topicOperator: {}
    userOperator: {}
```

> ### Stretched kafka cluster with submariner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Stretch cluster with Submariner
```

The Kafka cluster was deployed across three OCP environments, each hosting three brokers and three controllers. As with the regular Kafka cluster, we used ephemeral storage. Submariner was deployed on all three clusters and connected using the `subctl` binary.

> ```yaml

Reviewer: Remove this Yaml as it's already there in the previous page

Reviewer: Link to the yaml that is already there in the previous page .... The yaml is available here https://aswinayyolath.github.io/stretch-kafka-docs/Deploying-Strimzi-in-Stretch-Mode/

metadata:
  name: stretch2-broker
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: my-cluster
    strimzi.io/submariner-cluster-id: "cluster3"
spec:
  cluster: cluster-b #-------> all resources part of this KNP will be created in K8s cluster-b
  replicas: 3
  roles:
    - broker
  storage:
    type: jbod
    volumes:
      - id: 0
        type: ephemeral
        kraftMetadata: shared
---

apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
  annotations:
    strimzi.io/node-pools: enabled
    strimzi.io/kraft: enabled
    strimzi.io/cross-cluster-type: "submariner"  #------->  Cross Cluster Communication Technology in use 
spec:
  kafka:
    version: 3.8.0
    metadataVersion: 3.8-IV0
    listeners:
      - name: plain
        port: 9092
        type: internal
        tls: false
      - name: tls
        port: 9093
        type: internal
        tls: true
    config:
      offsets.topic.replication.factor: 3
      transaction.state.log.replication.factor: 3
      transaction.state.log.min.isr: 2
      default.replication.factor: 3
      min.insync.replicas: 2
  entityOperator:
    topicOperator: {}
    userOperator: {}
```

### Stretched kafka cluster with Cilium

> Three K8s clusters were connected using the `cilium` cli and then stretch was implemented on this using the exact same CR used for submariner. 3 brokers, 3 controllers on each of the clusters working together to form a stretched kafka cluster using cilium.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Three K8s clusters were connected using the `Cilium` cli and then stretch cluster was created on this setup using the CR similar to that of Submariner with 3 brokers and 3 controllers.
```
